Add upstream OTP-2 patches (#71)
ibi-group/OpenTripPlanner: src/main/java/org/opentripplanner/routing/algorithm/filterchain/package.md

# ItineraryListFilterChain

> ItineraryListFilterChain is a mechanism for post-processing itinerary results. It contains a list of

Reviewer: "a list of ItineraryListFilter"? (incomplete sentence)

debugging is off, the chain actually removes those itineraries that were flagged for deletion.

![Architecture diagram](ItineraryListFilterChain.svg)

There are four types of filters, which can be included in the filter chain. The same type of filter
can appear multiple times.

## DeletionFlaggingFilter

DeletionFlaggingFilter is responsible for flagging itineraries for deletion. It does not remove any
itineraries directly, but uses `Itinerary#flagForDeletion(SystemNotice)` for this. A 
DeletionFlaggingFilter is instantiated with a ItineraryDeletionFlagger, which contains the business 
logic for selecting the itineraries for flagging. You can use `skipAlreadyFlaggedItineraries()` for 
selecting if the filter should skip already flagged itineraries to the flagger. This is useful to 
disable, in case already removed itineraries are useful in comparing whether other itineraries 
should be flagged for removal.

## SortingFilter

SortingFilter is responsible for sorting the itineraries. It does this by having a Comparator, which
is used for sorting.

## GroupByFilter

GroupByFilter is used to group itineraries together using a `GroupId`, and running a set of filters

> on that subset of itineraries. This is used eg. to remove almost similar search results and to sort

Reviewer: ```suggestion
on that subset of itineraries. This is used e.g. to remove almost similar search results and to sort
```

them, so that only the best are shown to the user.

## DecoratingFilter

> DecorationgFilter can be used to decorate the itineraries. This can be used eg to add information

Reviewer: Typo
```suggestion
DecoratingFilter can be used to decorate the itineraries. This can be used e.g. to add information
```
